# Credit_Card_Financial_Dashboard
Credit Card Financial Report
# Project Objective: 
To develope a comprehensive Credit Card Weekly dashboard that provides real-time insights
into key performance metrics and trends w.r.t various factors such as Transaction details (transaction amount, transaction volume, etc)
Credit Card Category, Customer details(Age Group, Education level, Job type, Expenditure type, etc.), etc. enabling stakeholders to monitor and analyse
Credit Card Operations effectively.

# Steps: 
1. Data Import: the csv files of Credit Card data and Customer Data were used and were imported to MySQL.
                Data tables were refined into suitable formats and imported to Power BI.
2. Data Exploration: created certain sample visuals to understand the data and
                     to deduce custom features to be created
3. New metric Creation: using DAX queries, created new columns and measures such as Age Group, Income Group, Revenue, Week number, etc
4. Interactive Dashboard Creation: Created interactive visuals illustrating the trends and insights about the credit cards' performance & operations and
                                   Customers' credit card usage behaviour based on various demographic factors
5. Report: Filters applied to the dashboard helped create weekly report, delivering actionable insights 

# Insights:
1.  Revenue generated in the year 2023: 57 Million
2.  Interest Earned: 8 Million
3.  Total Customer Income: 588 Milion
4.  In the year 2023 with total Transaction count of 667k, Total Transaction Amount: 46 Million 
5.  Average Customer Satisfaction Score: 3.19
6.  63% of revenue came by customers Swiping their cards at POC
7.  In each quarter, approximately 14 Million revenue is generated, while the transaction count kept increasing gradually
8.  82% of revenue is generated by Blue Credit card category
9.  Highest revenue is generated by customers being the Businessman
10. 24.56% of revenue is generated by customer by paying bills using their credit cards
11. While the top 5 revenue generating states are TX, NY, CA, FL and NJ, TX being the highest revenue generating state has contributed to 22.8%
12. Age Group of 40-50 years customers are the highest revenue generating group
13. Overall Delinquent account is 6.06% of the total
14. While Male credit card customers are 31 Million, Female credit card customers are 26 Million

Week-on-Week Change (as per 31st December 2023):
1. Revenue increased by 28.8%
2. Total Transaction amount increaded by 35.0%
        
